At ACDI/VOCA, our mission is to empower people to succeed in the global economy. To achieve our mission on the widest scale, we have shifted to approaches that impact not just individual producers and businesses, but the broader market systems in which they operate. Influencing the structures and dynamics of those systems offers the potential to effect meaningful and lasting change for more people. This shift to systems thinking has been a long journey. In 2004, we supported USAID to develop the frameworks, research, and learning that launched the value chain approach to private sector development, an approach that encompasses many principles central to our work today. In 2013, ACDI/VOCA continued our partnership with USAID on the Leveraging Economic Opportunities (LEO) project to promote research and development of a systems approach to markets. LEO was influential in broadening the framework of market systems to incorporate the complex inter-relationships of value chains, economic, social, and political systems, and the underlying norms, networks, and patterns that shape behaviors and social outcomes. ACDI/VOCA’s Inclusive Market Systems Approach  Putting this theory into practice has required a shift in how we understand and engage with market systems, and to expand our analytical rigor and toolbox to understand the root causes behind constraints, our humility to adapt strategies and activities that respond to changing and complex systems, and our use of more meaningful ways to monitor and measure systems changes. In early August, we convened over 50 of our HQ- and field-based technical specialists and project leaders to roll out our inclusive market systems approach and to share our collective experience applying market systems tools and models in our work. At our Amplifying our Impact event at USAID, we highlighted several ACDI/VOCA projects and their experiences pivoting to a market systems approach across a variety of different geographies and contexts. We’re thrilled to have 50+ technical specialists across 16 of our projects in #marketsystems, #gender, and monitoring & evaluation in D.C. this week! Together, we’re building a shared understanding of ACDI/VOCA’s #inclusive market systems approach to sustainable development. pic.twitter.com/IyaOgNZSLp — ACDI/VOCA (@acdivoca) August 1, 2018  The chief of party of our Mozambique Livelihoods Empowerment and Development (LEAD) project, Cristobal Aguilar, shared his experience managing the transition of an intensive farmer training program to a market-led approach. This came after the recognition that knowledge was not the major issue facing farmers in Mozambique, but access to services and markets was needed to upgrade production practices. LEAD undertook a major shift by establishing a micro-entrepreneurship program that supported irrigation, agro-inputs, and land clearing services and facilitated relationships with market actors, such as the supplier of piri piri for the global restaurant chain Nando’s. Aguilar shared several success factors and lessons from his experience:  ACDI/VOCA’s Cristobal Aguilar, Agnes Luz, and Sergio Rivas at ACDI/VOCA’s learning event at USAID on August 2, 2018. Agnes Luz, chief of party of the USAID/Kyrgyzstan Agro Horizon project shared how the project’s transition to a market systems approach achieved more transformative change in the country’s marginalized southern region. Luz shared the following learnings: Sergio Rivas, chief of party of the newly awarded USAID/Honduras Transforming Market Systems (TMS) activity shared some of the early learnings from the startup phase of an activity with a strong market systems approach: Wyanie Bright of our affiliate AV Ventures draws on lessons learned from the @USDA #Ghana Poultry Project to highlight how a blended finance approach has allowed for more strategic investment in the growing poultry sector in the country. #marketsystems pic.twitter.com/d40XA75E4J — ACDI/VOCA (@acdivoca) August 2, 2018  The event also highlighted several other initiatives spotlighting ACDI/VOCA’s pivot to an inclusive market systems approach: Kristin O’Planick, USAID’s market systems specialist, closed the event by stating that the market systems approach is gaining relevance as part of the agency’s Global Food Security Strategy and USAID Administrator Mark Green’s focus on self-reliance. By switching from direct deliver to enabling systems change, we can achieve more with our development dollars. Systems thinking is not a silver bullet, and we should be asking ourselves what the limitations are — where and when does it make sense and where does it not? ACDI/VOCA looks forward to contributing to these questions and continuing to share our experiences as we move along our market systems journey. .@KOPlanick, market systems & enterprise development specialist at @USAID, closes out today’s discussion by sharing the donor’s perspective: “We’re going to be much more deliberate about utilizing a #marketsystems approach. This is not a new approach, simply an evolution.” pic.twitter.com/RdcaNWaivg — ACDI/VOCA (@acdivoca) August 2, 2018 <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>