The ACDI/VOCA Board of Directors is pleased to announce that Charles “CJ” Hall has been appointed President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Hall will assume day-to-day leadership of ACDI/VOCA on June 1. “CJ possesses the full range of technical expertise and management acumen needed to lead ACDI/VOCA in our changing marketplace. With his broad experience as an executive in both the private and public sectors, and as a diplomat, the Board is confident in the direction he will lead ACDI/VOCA,” said Board Chair Deborah Atwood. Said CJ, “I am very pleased to be chosen by the ACDI/VOCA Board of Directors to serve as their next President and CEO. There are very few organizations able to claim the sterling half-century record of accomplishment in international development earned by ACDI/VOCA. I look forward to working with the board and staff of this great organization to navigate the changing terrain of the development world and to help write the next chapter of the remarkable ACDI/VOCA story.” Appointed by President Obama as Executive Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. (EXIM Bank) in 2013, Mr. Hall later served as EXIM Chairman and President. His career achievements as an emerging markets corporate finance banker started with J.P. Morgan and Company, where CJ was based in New York, São Paulo, and London. As an entrepreneur, CJ founded and managed a successful U.K. food manufacturing business. He also served as chief executive of a nonprofit that managed community-based agroforestry and forest protection programs in sub-Saharan Africa. CJ began his professional career as a U.S. naval officer serving in both the Atlantic and Pacific fleets. He was also a U.S. Foreign Service officer, with postings in Kenya, Brazil, and Washington, D.C. He earned his Bachelor of Science degree in economics from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and a Master of Business Administration from Columbia University. Interim President and CEO Sylvia Megret added, “I’m excited to extend a warm welcome from the staff of ACDI/VOCA. CJ is a great cultural fit and we’ll appreciate his institutional leadership. He brings a fabulous set of technical skills, particularly in financial services, a dynamic sector of our industry today.” For more information, please contact Paul Guenette at pguenette@acdivoca.org.